.\"* execs: convert strings to argv
.\" Copyright (C) 2014 Renzo Davoli. University of Bologna. <renzo@cs.unibo.it>
.\" 
.\" This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License as published by the Free Software Foundation; either
.\" version 2.1 of the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\" 
.\" This library is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the GNU
.\" Lesser General Public License for more details.
.\" 
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU Lesser General Public
.\" License along with this library; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 51 Franklin Street, Fifth Floor, Boston, MA  02110-1301  USA
.TH execs 3 2014-05-27 "VirtualSquare" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
execs, execsp, execspe \- execute a file taking its arguments from a string
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.br
.B #include <execs.h>
.sp
.BI "int execs(const char *" path ", const char *" args ");"
.br
.BI "int execse(const char *" path ", const char *" args ", char *const " envp "[]);"
.br
.BI "int execsp(const char *" args ");"
.br
.BI "int execspe(const char *" args ", char *const " envp "[]);"
.sp
.sp
.sp
.BI "int eexecs(const char *" path ", char *" args ");"
.br
.BI "int eexecse(const char *" path ", char *" args ", char *const " envp "[]);"
.br
.BI "int eexecsp(char *" args ");"
.br
.BI "int eexecspe(char *" args ", char *const " envp "[]);"
.sp
These functions are provided by libexecs and libeexecs. Link with \fI-lexecs\fR or \fI-leexecs\fR.
.SH DESCRIPTION
This
group of functions extends the family of \fBexec\fR(3) provided by the libc.
.br
\fBexecs\fR, \fBexecse\fR, \fBexecsp\fR and \fBexecspe\fR are similar to
\fBexecv\fR(3), \fBexecve\fR(2), \fBexecvp\fR(3) and \fBexecvpe\fR(3), respectively, but
take the command line arguments for the file to execute 
(and the also the command name for \fBexecsp\fR(3) and \fBexecspe\fR(3))
by parsing a command string \fIargs\fR.
.br
Command arguments in \fIargs\fR are delimited by space characters (blank, tabs
or new lines).
Single or double quotes can be used to delimitate command arguments including
spaces and a non quoted backslash (\fB\e\fP)
is the escape character to protect the next char.
.br
\fBexecs\fR, \fBexecse\fR, \fBexecsp\fR and \fBexecspe\fR do not use
dynamic allocation but require space on the stack to store an entire
copy of \fIargs\fR.
\fBeexecs\fR, \fBeexecse\fR, \fBeexecsp\fR and \fBeexecspe\fR
do not use extra stack space but modify \fIargs\fR.

In case the same argv should be used for several exec command, use
\fBs2argv\fR(3) to parse the args just once.

.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return only if an error has occurred. The return value
is always \-1. The failure cases and errno values are those specified
for \fBexecve\fR(2).

.SH EXAMPLE
The following program demonstrates the use of \fBexecs\fR:
.BR
.sp
\&
.nf
#include <stdio.h>
#include <unistd.h>
#include <execs.h>

#define BUFLEN 1024
int main(int argc, char *argv)
{
	char buf[BUFLEN];
	printf("type in a command and its arguments, e.g. 'ls -l'\\n");
	if (fgets(buf, BUFLEN, stdin) != NULL) {
		execsp(buf);
		printf("exec error\\n");
	}
}
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR exec (3), s2argv (3)
.SH BUGS
Bug reports should be addressed to <info@virtualsquare.org>
.SH AUTHOR
Renzo Davoli <renzo@cs.unibo.it>

